## Introduction

This is my new payments sheet.

It is different from the gist I used previously to keep track of my expenses.

## FAQ

_How is it different?_

I am now using a site generator (`hugo`) to generate my expenses markdown file from JSON data.

_Where is the final markdown file located?_

It can be found at [public/expense/index.md](https://github.com/EMMANUELKUS/expenses-hugo/tree/master/public/expense/index.md)

_Where is this JSON file located?_

It can be found at [data/expenses.json](https://github.com/EMMANUELKUS/expenses-hugo/tree/master/data/expenses.json)


_How does HUGO know how to transform JSON into markdown?_

It uses the data as instructed in the template file.

_Where is the template file located?_

It can be found at [layouts/_default/expense.md.md](https://github.com/EMMANUELKUS/expenses-hugo/tree/master/layouts/_default/expense.md.md)

_How does the template instruct HUGO, what templating language does it use?_

It uses Golang's templating language.

_Do we edit the final markdown file directly? Why?_

No, you don't need to edit final markdown file dirctly because HUGO generates it automatically.

_What do we sometimes call the final markdown file, when generated by a site generator like HUGO?_

Artefact

_Why does the template filename end with `.md.md`?_

Templates always end with `.md`. After the templates is used to generate the artefact, the last `.md` is removed, and the other `.md` remains in the artefact filename.

```
./layouts/_default/expenses.md.md
                               ^ this is the extension of the template
                            ^ this is the extension of the artefact
```

> Example: a template that generates HTML will have the ending `.html.md`

## Bug Detection

There are two types of bugs that can happen in an expense sheet:

- [X] Bugs in the markdown (columns fused together, incorrect emoji codes, etc.)
- [-] Bugs in the content or in the information (2005 instead of 2025, Surgert instead of Surgery, purposee instead of purposed in the property name, missing amount)

After we introduced the idea of using a JSON file for the information, we now have 3 subtypes of the the information bugs:

- [X] A bug in the JSON itself `A` caught by vs code
- [X] A bug in the way we use JSON to describe an expense `A` caught using the schema
- [ ] A bug in information itself, for example wrong date, amount, or paid status

### Detecting content bugs

```
If you want to search for an "ERROR", you firstly go into the data file and save it, after saving the file then you run "hugo" in the terminal, after running hugo and then you look for ERROR by going through the whole file OR after running hugo you can use a command called "grep". grep command can make it easy for you to serach for ERRORS without the need to go through the whole file.


            save file         run command             search for ERROR
[json file] ---------> [hugo] -----------> [artefact] ----------> [content bug discovery]

     A                   B                     C                        D

```
Initialy we were able to discover or detect bugs only in the final stage (D) but now we've added a schema which helps us to discover or detect bugs in an early stage (A)
